.\"
.\" desktop-file-validate manual page.
.\" (C) 2010 Vincent Untz (vuntz@gnome.org)
.\"
.TH DESKTOP-FILE-VALIDATE 1 FREEDESKTOP.ORG
.SH NAME
desktop-file-validate \- Validate desktop entry files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B desktop-file-validate [\-\-no-hints] [\-\-no-warn-deprecated] [\-\-warn-kde] FILE...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIdesktop-file-validate\fP program is a tool to validate desktop
entry files according to the Desktop Entry specification 1.5.
.PP
The specification describes a file format to provide information such as
name, icon and description for an application. Such a file can then be
used as an application launcher and to display the application in the
applications menu.
.PP
For information about the Desktop Entry specification, see
\fIhttp://freedesktop.org/wiki/Specifications/desktop-entry-spec\fP.
.PP
The desktop entry files are commonly called \fBdesktop files\fP.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported:
.TP
.I --no-hints
Do not output hints about things that might be improved in the desktop file.
.TP
.I --no-warn-deprecated
Do not warn about usage of deprecated items that were defined in
previous versions of the specification.
.TP
.I --warn-kde
Warn about usage of KDE extensions to the specification. This includes
the use of the \fBKDE Desktop Entry\fP group, of the \fBServiceTypes\fP,
\fBDocPath\fP, \fBKeywords\fP, \fBInitialPreference\fP, \fBDev\fP,
\fBFSType\fP, \fBMountPoint\fP, \fBReadOnly\fP, \fBUnmountIcon\fP keys,
or of the \fBService\fP, \fBServiceType\fP and \fBFSDevice\fP types.
.SH BUGS
If you find bugs in the \fIdesktop-file-validate\fP program, please
report these on https://bugs.freedesktop.org.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR desktop-file-edit(1)
.BR desktop-file-install(1)
